It's a real pleasure to be here
today to introduce for the first
time the CFNetwork APIs at WWDC.
Okay,
so what we're going to start with is
just a basic overview of what CF network
is and what it's intended to do.
Then we're going to back up for a
second and talk about some basic
concepts that CF network inherits
from Core Foundation itself.
Once we've covered that,
we're going to get into the meat
of what the APIs actually provide,
and we're going to start
with CF socket stream.
Then move on to the
HTTP engine inside CF network.
There are two types associated with that,
CF HTTP message and CF HTTP stream.
Then we're going to talk
about CF net services.
Those are the APIs that
provide you with access to
rendezvous and all of its power.
Then finally,
we're going to wrap up with a simple
demo about how it all comes together.
So I'm going to start
out with the overview.
And we're going to be
answering these five questions.
What is CFNetwork?
How does it fit into the
Mac OS X stack as a whole?
What does it provide to you?
When you should be using CFNetwork,
as opposed to one of the other
APIs available on Mac OS X?
And finally, where is it available?
So, CFNetwork provides three basic
chunks of functionality in Jaguar.
It provides, basically,
libraries of abstractions
for network protocols you all
know and are familiar with.
So that means sockets, HTTP,
and the new rendezvous APIs.
The APIs are all in the
style of core foundation.
We export all of our
functionality using CF types,
and we build on all of the the
types available in core foundation,
most notably the run loop.
So what are the goals
of CFNetwork as a whole?
The primary goal of CFNetwork
is to expose the full power and
functionality of the underlying protocol.
We try to make the protocol accessible
to you in easy and natural terms,
but we do it without
hiding any of the power,
any of the flexibility of
whatever protocol lies underneath.
We try to have strong integration with
the existing API paradigms on the system.
Most notably, again, is the CFRunLoop,
which, whether you're a Carbon app
or a Cocoa application,
brings the user events into your
application for your processing.
We make sure that our overhead compared
to raw BSD sockets is little to nothing.
There is a slight memory
footprint overhead,
and as far as throughput goes,
there's almost no overhead.
It's in the noise,
provided the packet leaves
the computer over the network.
However, what we will not do is we
will not protect you from
the details of the protocol.
We can't provide you with the full
flexibility of the protocol while
shielding you from those details.
So how does it fit in?
You've probably seen this diagram
or something pretty similar
a few million times by now.
It's the basic API stacks
available to you as a developer.
And here I've overlaid
the basic networking APIs.
Down at the Core OS layer in Darwin,
we have Berkeley Sockets.
That's our foundation.
Everything inside CFNetwork
is done on top of TCP/IP.
CFNetwork itself resides
inside the core services layer,
so it's beneath all the
application frameworks.
That's also below the UI layer,
so it's accessible to you if you're
a faceless application or a daemon.
And then up inside the
application frameworks,
Carbon and Cocoa,
you see some of the other
networking APIs on the platform.
They're built on this foundation of
CFNetwork on top of Berkeley Sockets.
But it gets more interesting.
If you look inside of
core services itself,
you can find some more layering.
And here we can see that CFNetwork
is built on top of the foundation
provided by core foundation.
In particular, we use CFURL, CFStream,
and CFRunLoop quite heavily.
And then other core services networking
APIs are built on top of CFNetwork.
So the two most notable examples of
that are the new web services framework,
which provides access to
SOAP and XMLRPC messaging,
and NSL.
So just to summarize, CFNetwork,
part of the core services layer,
builds on top of BSD sockets
plus core foundation,
used by all of the higher-level
frameworks like NSURL,
NSL, web services.
But it's also used directly
by many apps on our platform,
largely at times when they want a
performance boost relative to using
the more convenient higher-level APIs.
So just as some examples, Mail,
Software Update, Sherlock, iPhoto,
and the new iChat all use CFNetwork
for their networking needs.
Okay,
so what do you find inside CFNetwork?
Three basic pieces,
some common socket abstractions that
provide the basic streaming model
that we're going to use throughout.
An HTTP 1.1 engine,
so that's fully persistent,
pipelined connections,
exported through two types,
HTTP message and HTTP stream.
And finally, the Net Services layer,
which provides API access to
zero configuration or rendezvous.
And we have two types there,
CFNet Service and CFNet Service Browser.
And we're going to walk you through
all of those APIs in detail here.
So, finally,
when should you use CF network?
Well, use CF network precisely
when you need a low-level,
high-performance framework.
If you're thinking about,
should I use CF network instead
of one of the higher-level APIs,
you should drop to CF network
if this describes you.
You want to work directly with
the socket more intimately.
You need exacting control of when the
bytes are read or written to the network.
You're not happy with letting
a higher-level framework
move the bytes for you.
You need detailed control of
HTTP and an HTTP transaction.
You want to link low.
You want to avoid linking with
something in the UI layer.
or you need new features that
are only available in CFNetwork,
and Net Services would be
the big example of that.
But please, by all means,
use the higher-level
APIs when it's possible.
They're more convenient.
They're simpler.
They just don't give you as much power,
so you have to decide
what your needs are.
Now let's look at it from the other side.
How do you know you should climb
to CFNetwork if you're thinking
about using sockets instead?
Well, use CFNetwork if you need
integration with the run loop.
You can do it yourself,
but we've done it for you,
so why not take advantage
of the work we've done?
In particular,
if you want to avoid managing
the details of select,
let us do that for you.
Or if you want simple
TLS or SSL integration,
we can provide that for you.
Or if you want some kind of
a basic object abstraction,
I've put object in quotes because core
foundation is not a true OO language,
but it does give you
some object-orientedness.
And in particular, it provides you with
some reference counting.
So where can you find CFNetwork?
CFNetwork actually appeared as a
public API for the first time in 10.1,
but we've added many new
features starting with Jaguar.
Here are the three big ones.
We've added SOX support,
that's SOX v4 and v5, CFNet services,
of course, and we've moved from HTTP.
They were 1.1 connections,
but they were not persistent.
Starting with Jaguar,
we have full persistent
pipelined HTTP 1.1 connections.
Okay,
so with that I'm going to move on to
start talking about some basic concepts.
There are two basic concepts from
Core Foundation that we leverage heavily,
and it's going to be difficult for you to
use CFNetwork without understanding them.
Those are streams and run loops,
so I'm going to breeze through the
basics of those two types here.
However,
if you're not familiar with them,
I highly recommend you come
to session 808 tomorrow,
Managing I.O.
That session is all about
using CFStream and CFRunLoop.
We go into just tons more detail
than I have time for today.
So streams.
What is a stream?
A stream is simply a one-way byte stream
to some source or some destination.
The APIs are very similar to
simple POSIX file descriptors.
You create the stream, you open it,
you do a bunch of reads or writes.
When you're done,
you close it and dispose of it.
There are two true CF types
to represent the streams,
CF Read stream and CF Write stream,
so that's one for each direction.
However, as I go through this talk,
I'll be talking about
other types of streams,
like a socket stream or an HTTP stream.
Those are just special cases
of read or write streams,
and you should be aware that they are
not true CF types in their own right.
Properties.
So streams carry properties.
That's the way you represent anything
about the stream that is not actually
part of the data transfer itself.
properties describe how the
stream is going to behave.
They also represent any
information discovered by the
stream as it does its processing.
So when you need to configure a stream,
you're going to do that by
setting properties on the stream.
And when you need to get
information from the stream,
you may well do it by
querying properties.
So how do you use properties?
Properties come in name-value pairs.
So you're going to access
the property by name.
The name is a CFString.
And the value is going to
be some kind of CFType.
You should be aware that when
you get and set properties,
streams always have the
right to refuse properties.
Properties is a very generic mechanism.
And if you ask a stream about a property,
it doesn't recognize.
It's simply going to
say no or return null.
So a stream will refuse a property
if it doesn't recognize it,
if the value is invalid
or somehow misformatted,
or if the stream has already been opened.
There are certain properties
that you can set on the fly,
but unless you see documentation
that says otherwise,
assume you must configure the stream,
you must set the properties
prior to opening the stream.
So how do you know when a
stream's refused a property?
Well,
copy property is going to return null.
Set property will return false.
So here are some examples.
In the first one,
I'm asking an HTTP stream for
the response headers it's read.
Read stream copy property,
pass the stream,
and then the named property.
KCF stream property,
HTTP response headers.
In the second one,
I'm setting the security level
on a socket to be negotiated SSL.
This would be, for instance,
the setting you'd want if you were
trying to program HTTPS yourself.
You'd set it to negotiate
SSL with the server.
Finally, I'm configuring an HTTP proxy
on presumably an HTTP stream,
and I'm passing in a proxy
dictionary to describe that proxy.
Okay, so that's your brief 30-second
introduction to streams.
Now you're going to get a 30-second
introduction to run loops.
So run loops are also
from Core Foundation,
and they're represented by a CF type,
CF run loop.
And it's a basic abstraction
for an event loop.
The idea is that the run loop
has several different sources,
and in the course of its lifetime,
it looks at those sources and waits
for something interesting to happen.
If something interesting
happens to one of the sources,
that triggers a callback.
the callback handles the event.
So, for example,
some typical sources you'd see on a
run loop inside a running application
would be sources to handle user events,
mouse clicks, key presses,
that kind of thing.
Sources to field Mach messages
coming in over IPC.
Possibly timers,
and then the one of greatest
interest to us here,
socket sources.
Anytime we talk about a CF run loop,
it's important to keep in mind there's
exactly one CF run loop per thread.
If you have multiple threads,
you have multiple run loops.
If you have a run loop,
you're talking about a thread.
So here's the basic
lifetime of a run loop.
The run loop sits watching its sources.
When something interesting happens,
the run loop notices,
triggers a callback.
The callback will execute something,
somehow process the event,
and then return.
And the run loop simply
goes back to watching again,
looking for something
interesting to happen.
The point behind all of this is
it allows you to manage multiple
inputs on a single thread.
You have five sockets?
Fine.
Just install five socket
sources on the run loop.
The run loop is now watching all five
sockets on a single thread for you.
Runloops and clients.
So clients is a notion that CFNetwork
and CFStream together use pretty heavily.
The idea behind setting a client
is you are setting your callback,
your info pointer, and saying, hey,
I'm interested in these kinds of events.
Please inform me via the runloop.
So to use a client,
what you do is you first call
setClient on the relevant object.
CFReadStream setClient.
You pass the stream,
you pass your refcon,
and then you pass a callback.
Then you take the CFNetwork object
and you schedule it on a run loop.
Remember, run loop is a thread,
so essentially what you're saying is
I want to handle events on this thread.
CF read stream schedule with run loop,
pass the stream,
you pass the run loop of interest.
Typically you're going to be
scheduling on the current run loop,
meaning I want the callback on
this thread that is executing now.
CF run loop get current.
And then finally the modes,
which we'll get into more
detail in session 808.
I'm just going to use
the common modes here.
So you can always schedule on
multiple run loops if you want.
Just call schedule with
run loop multiple times.
But remember, multiple run loops
means multiple threads.
The objects that we're
talking about are not,
in general, thread safe.
You must make sure you are only accessing
them from a single thread at a time.
So if you've scheduled
on multiple run loops,
it is your responsibility
to protect the objects.
So now what happens?
I've taken this object,
set my client on it,
and scheduled it on a run loop.
Well, as the run loop runs,
the CFNetwork object is going
to detect interesting events,
bytes arriving on the socket,
an error occurring,
the connect occurring,
those kinds of things.
As it detects those changes,
it will trigger your
callback from the thread.
Now, the catch here is that if
the run loop is not running,
the CFNetwork object isn't
looking for interesting events.
So it is, again,
your responsibility to make sure
that the run loop is running if
you've scheduled an object on it.
Now,
the good news is that both the Cocoa and
Carbon UI frameworks will run the
run loop for the main thread for you.
That's how it's watching for user events.
However, if you spawn a secondary thread,
or if you're not linked with one
of these high-level frameworks,
running the run loop is going
to be your responsibility.
Okay, so for most CF objects,
when you're done with them,
you simply release them,
and that's your signal to say, okay,
I never need to hear from you again.
Go away.
That does not work with run-loop sources,
because remember,
they're holding a refcon back to you.
And just because you have released
your reference on them doesn't
mean someone else isn't holding
on to the CFNetwork object.
And as long as that
CFNetwork object is alive,
it may well call back into you.
So, how do you work with that?
When you are done with
the CFNetwork object,
make sure to call setClientNull
to tell the CFNetwork object,
never trigger my callback again.
At the same time,
you should also unschedule from any
run loops to avoid causing unnecessary
thrashing or running on the run loop.
So it looks like this.
CF read stream set client null.
Unschedule from run loop, stream,
the same run loop you scheduled on,
the same modes you scheduled with,
and then finally you're done.
You can release the stream.
So that's it for the basics
from Core Foundation.
Now we're going to move into the meat of
what the APIs inside CFNetwork provide.
We're going to start
out with socket streams.
From core foundation itself,
there are APIs that allow you to
create a read stream and a write
stream pair for a given socket.
You can specify the remote end of
the socket stream these three ways,
by host name, meaning domain name,
and the port number.
By the raw socket,
maybe you already have a socket that
you've configured from some other source.
Or by the socket signature,
in other words, by the sock adder.
Basic support, like I said,
is provided inside of core foundation,
but CFNetwork adds a number of
interesting configuration properties.
and, right.
Okay, so you can find those properties
inside cfsocketstream.h.
One thing to keep in
mind is with the socket,
the read stream and the write stream
are using that same underlying resource.
They're both talking to the same socket.
So if you configure the read stream,
that's going to affect the
write stream and vice versa.
And you should also keep in mind
that you can set socket properties on
any streams built on top of sockets,
and we take care of passing it through.
So for example,
if you want to set the SOX proxy,
which is a socket stream property,
on an HTTP stream,
just go ahead and do it,
and it's the HTTP stream's responsibility
to pass that property setting through.
Now, this, I have to admit,
is not quite working on the CDs you have.
However, it will be working by Jaguar,
really.
So what are the interesting
socket properties?
Here they are.
The SOCKS proxy settings are one
of the interesting properties.
You can configure V4, V5.
You can configure the remote address.
If you want,
you can construct the dictionary
with these values yourself.
If instead you want to just inherit
whatever the setting is on the computer,
on the current host,
use system config to grab the proxy
dict and just pass it blindly through.
You don't have to look at it.
We have made the formats match.
The other interesting property
that you'll find in CFNetwork
is the TLS or SSL level.
I'm going to move on now to talk about
the HTTP engine inside of CFNetwork.
So, again,
there are two basic CF types we
provide for handling HTTP transactions.
CF HTTP message is just a data object,
represents an HTTP request or response.
CFHTTP Stream, on the other hand,
is the object that
actually does the download,
actually builds the
connection to the server.
So the normal way you're going to use
the HTTP engine is you first create an
HTTP message that represents the request.
Then you create a stream
from the HTTP message.
Then you open from the stream
and read the bytes off.
So, first CFHTTP message.
Like I said,
it represents the request or response.
You can get and set the header fields,
you can get and set the body,
you can configure every
aspect of the HTTP message.
And when you use the HTTP message,
there are two basic usage patterns.
Either you're going to construct
the message programmatically,
that's the normal usage.
You say, I want a request,
it's going to be a get request,
here's the URL,
and here are the header fields.
Or you're trying to parse out a
message from a series of bytes,
so you know you have a byte stream
that is coming from an HTTP server
or that represents an HTTP message,
and you just want us to go through the
work of parsing out the HTTP structures.
So what does it look like?
Here's how I construct a message.
CFHTTP message create request.
I pass the allocator.
I pass the request string,
so in this case I'm doing a post.
I pass the URL that I'm
interested in accessing.
And then finally I pass
the version string.
Now I've got my object,
and I can go ahead and start
setting header fields on it.
So here I'm setting the user
agent to be some string.
You can set any number of them,
obviously.
And then at some point in the future,
you may want to set a
body on the request.
CFHTTP message, set body,
and here I'm just setting
it to be some post data.
Here's the other usage.
I'm going to breeze through this
because this is the less common usage.
But if you do have a series of
bytes from an HTTP server and
you're parsing it manually,
here's how you do it.
You'd create an empty message.
You would go and get the bytes from
wherever you're getting them from.
And then as you get byte buffers,
you would call HTTP message append bytes.
That function will return true,
assuming the parse succeeded.
If it returns false,
it means the data you
gave it was not valid.
to validate HTTP data.
Once you're done, you can now examine the
message that you got,
find out what the status code is,
look at any of the header fields.
Okay, so much for HTTP message.
Now let's move on to HTTP stream.
You create an HTTP stream
from an HTTP message,
which represents a request.
When you open and read from that stream,
you're not going to get the header data.
What you're getting is
the pure body bytes.
If you need to examine
the HTTP header itself,
you will do that by fetching a
property like we saw earlier,
CFStreamPropertyHttpResponseHeader.
CFHTTP Stream provides a number of
properties that are interesting above
and beyond the socket properties.
You can find those HTTP-specific
properties in CFHTTPStream.h.
Here's a list of them.
The ones that are settable are whether
the stream should automatically redirect
when it receives a 300 response.
You can set the proxy settings.
That works exactly the same
way as the SOX proxy settings.
Just get the dictionary from system
config and pass it blindly through
if you simply want to use the
proxy settings on the host itself.
And you can set whether or not
to use a persistent connection.
The gettable properties are
the response header and the
final URL that was accessed.
The final URL will only differ
from the URL in the request
if there was a redirection and
automatic redirection was turned on.
So how do I use an HTTP stream?
Well, create it and configure it,
schedule it,
Get the response in your callback,
and then after that's all done, clean up.
We're going to walk through
each of those in detail.
So here's the creation phase.
Construct the request from somewhere,
like we did before.
Then create the stream.
CFReadStream create for HTTP request.
Pass the allocator and the
CFHTTP message for the request.
Now do any configuration
that's interesting.
If you want to, for instance,
if you want automatic
redirection to go on,
set it now.
If you have a proxy
dictionary you want to set,
now would be the time to do that.
When you're done, return the stream.
So now we have a stream and
we're ready to schedule.
As part of scheduling,
you're going to need to set your client.
The first part of setting the client
is deciding what events in the
stream lifetime you're interested in.
So here I'm saying that the
events I'm interested in are
when the open is completed,
when the stream is fully opened.
I want to know when the stream has bytes
available that are ready to be read off.
I want to know when the end of
the stream has been reached.
And I want to know if any
error occurs along the way.
Okay, now I'm ready to set the client.
Set client, pass the stream,
pass the events that
you're interested in,
then the callback, handle event,
finally your context pointer.
Streams been configured.
I've set my client.
Now I'm ready to
schedule on the run loop.
CFReadStreams schedule with run loop.
Here, again,
I'm scheduling on the current
run loop in the common modes.
So I'm saying that as long as the
toolboxes are just doing normal things,
as long as the run loop has not been
put into some kind of funky mode,
I want my callback,
and I want it on this thread.
Finally, I'm ready to open the stream.
Now I just sit back and wait.
The RunLoop and CFNetwork
is doing your work for you,
and all you have to do is wait
for your callback to come in.
So first I'm going to show you
the signature for the callback.
Callback takes three arguments.
The first one is going to be
the stream reporting the event.
Second argument is
what event has come in.
And the last argument
is your info pointer.
Most of the time,
your callback is simply going to be a
giant switch with a case statement for
each of the events you registered for.
I added the default line here with the
just prints you should never get here.
You will never receive an
event you didn't register for.
So now let's look at each of
those cases in particular.
First one, CFStream event open completed.
There's usually not a lot you
want to do it when open completed.
It's just sort of a nice milestone
to know that the stream is
progressing in its lifetime.
So I'm just going to print that out.
The open's completed.
End Encountered.
Now the stream has reached
the end of its lifetime.
I'm going to print out all done,
and then go on to clean up the stream.
In the error case,
I'm going to want to do
some kind of error handling.
I can get the error that's
occurred back from the stream
by calling CFReadStreamGetError,
and then I'm going off into handle error,
some error handling
routine that I've written.
Again, the stream is done at this point.
Once a stream's errored out,
you can't recover.
So I'm going to clean up this stream.
And now on to the more interesting one,
the has bytes available.
This is where the most interesting work
is going to be done in your callback.
Before dealing with that middle code,
I'm going to jump to the end.
Every time I enter this callback,
I want to get the bytes out of the
stream that have been reported.
I do that by calling CFReadStreamRead,
pass in a buffer in
the size of the buffer.
That causes the stream to copy in all of
the bytes that it has into your buffer,
and just like the POSIX read call,
it returns to you the number
of bytes that it's filled.
And then I can handle those body bytes.
Again, all of the HTTP headers,
all of the HTTP control
data has been stripped out.
All you're receiving here are the raw
data bytes carried by the HTTP response.
But often, you will have some special
processing that you want to do when
you first get the response header.
So the way you do that is the first
time you receive has bytes available,
you know,
you're receiving the first data byte,
so the header itself must be complete.
Go to the stream and ask
for the response header.
Copy property, KCF stream property,
HTTP response header.
That's an HTTP message ref.
You can examine it,
look at what has happened,
and here I'm calling process
headers just to represent that work.
Then when you're done,
copy property has the word copy in it,
so you received a reference.
Make sure to release that
reference by calling CF release.
That's it for handle event.
Now the last stage is
cleaning up the stream.
I have gone into kind
of painful detail here.
Often in your own code,
you will only need to do
two or three of these steps,
but I want to walk you through all of
them and explain what each one is doing,
and then depending on your situation,
you will use some of these
and maybe not others.
The first thing you may want to
do is call CF Read Stream Close.
That is your cue to the stream that it
can release all of its system resources.
You are done using the
stream to transfer bytes.
Now I want to guarantee that the stream
never triggers my callback again.
I want it to forget all knowledge
it has about my info pointer
and my callback function.
Set client HTTP stream, no events,
no callback, no info pointer.
Now I need to scrub the read
stream off the run loops so that
even though it's not calling me,
it's not causing the run
loops to spin at all.
On schedule from run loop,
I pass the same run loop and the same
modes I used when I first scheduled.
Current run loop, common modes.
Finally,
I release our reference to the stream.
So that's the most common
usage of HTTP streams,
but there is this other case
that comes up from time to time.
Sometimes you're going to
want to send an HTTP request
where the body is very large,
larger than you want to
hold inside of memory.
Well, as you just saw,
when we called CF Readstream create HTTP,
we were creating from an HTTP request
which had the body already attached.
So in that case,
the body was resident in memory.
If you don't want to
put the body in memory,
use this function instead.
Create for streamed HTTP request.
And what you're going to do is provide a
read stream that provides the body data.
When you open the stream,
it will transmit the headers
and then automatically open the
stream you provided and start
sending body bytes from it.
There are a couple gotchas.
If you provide a content length
inside of the request headers,
it had better be correct, basically.
Otherwise, that's going to screw up
the HTTP transmission.
Also, because we have no way of
backing up your body stream,
we cannot perform automatic
redirection in this case.
We couldn't somehow unroll
the HTTP body content.
And that's all I had about HTTP services.
Now I'm going to invite Jeremy Wyld
up onto the screen to talk about
Rendezvous and Network Services.
So today I want to talk
about network services,
what they are,
and how they pertain to CFNetwork.
Think of network services as a method for
advertising a service by name and type,
much like MBP did.
on a domain on the network,
much like AppleTalk's zones.
How do we do this?
This great new technology
called rendezvous or zero
configuration networking.
This is brand new in Jaguar,
and it provides a local networking
protocol that's simple to use,
like AppleTalk was, but it's also
It's built upon industry standards.
In order to get the nitty-gritty of this,
I'd really invite you to go
to session 811 on Thursday and
really find out what we do there.
So what does Xero
Configuration provide for you?
It provides a standard for
advertising services on the network.
It's a name-based registration.
You provide a name, a type,
and it supports TCP and UDP.
And then finally,
you can register on any domain,
so you're not stuck to a
single registration domain.
It also provides a standard for
discovering services on the network,
and on top of that,
for discovering topology
about the network,
other domains that exist on the network,
so you can find out about those
other zones or domains that exist.
So what did we do for
CFNetwork with this?
Well, we created CFNet Services.
We've abstracted two different types.
We've created Net Services and
Net Service Browsers.
A net service represents the single
service provider on the network.
Some of the attributes for that service:
your domain, your type of service
that you're providing,
your name of your service,
its address or addresses,
and then what port your
service is listening on.
The Network Service Browser then
represents a search for either
services or domains on the network,
one or the other.
With these two types,
they both follow the same
CF type stream usage model.
You're going to create them
You're going to schedule
them on a run loop.
You're going to tell them to run.
And then, finally,
you just sit back and wait to handle
the callbacks when these things occur.
So,
what do you do with these two objects?
Well, there's three main things that
you're going to want to do.
You're going to either want
to advertise your service that
you've created on the network,
or you're going to want to
advertise your service that
you've created on the network.
You're going to want to find
services on the network.
Thirdly, you're going to want to resolve,
connect to, use that service.
What I'm going to do is walk through a
simple application that's meant to be
just an Echo server and then a client.
I'm going to walk through this code,
and we're going to do
each one of these things.
First off,
let's start with advertising the service.
So, just like the usage
pattern I stated earlier,
we create the service.
We create our object.
In this case,
creating it with the default allocator.
We're going to, we're going to
Create it on the default domain.
This is indicated by the empty string.
I'm registering a service
of the echo type over TCP.
The name of my service.
This may have either come
from the system control panel,
where the person set their name,
or maybe I've prompted the user for it,
or, however, you know,
I just formulated this, pass it along.
This is a CFString,
can be formulated however you wish.
Finally, what port I'm listening on.
Now in this example, I'm listening on the
well-known port for echo,
which is seven.
Had I been using a real socket,
what I could have done
is queried the socket,
asked it for its local port,
and then used it instead.
That's one of the
beauties behind CFNetwork.
The Rendezvous Protocol is that this
port is no longer going to be important.
What is important is the name and the
service type that we're registering.
Next, in the usage model,
we schedule it on the run loop.
We've set the client,
so I'm setting a callback,
so my register callback, this context,
which is going to hold my
refcon and some functions,
I schedule it on the run loop.
Scheduling it on the current
run loop in common modes,
just like streams.
Finally, I tell it to run.
In this case,
we're telling it to register.
This is going to go out,
register the service on the network.
We pass along the service
that we want to register,
we pass along a reference
to an error struct.
Should an error occur as a process
of starting up the registration,
we can find out about it this way.
Now, registration and some of these
other functions that I'm going to
show are inherently asynchronous.
In this case, we're registering.
You can assume at this point you
are registered on the network.
You can assume so until you
hear back on your callback.
And for registration,
your callback will get
called for one reason.
There's been an error.
There's really one important
error situation that you really
want to make sure you handle,
and that is that there's been a
name collision on the network.
So at this point, what you want to do is
formulate a new name,
or maybe you just want to quit.
I'd suggest formulating a new name.
So, you can formulate a name either by
something as simple as adding a number
to the end of your name that you used,
you know, adding a two or a three,
whatever, at the end.
Or you can prompt the user again,
ask them for a new name,
choose a different name,
that one's already
existing on the network.
And then we just go about trying
to register the service again.
Either way,
we have to kill off our old service.
So we know it off just
like we do streams.
We make sure we pull it off the run loop.
We go ahead and release the service.
The service is gone at that point.
You're no longer
registered on the network.
[Transcript missing]
We have a service sitting out there,
but people are going to want
to be able to use your service.
It doesn't do much good to
create a service if you don't
have people feeding on it.
What we want to do is find
services on the network.
Once again, same usage model.
We create our object.
In this case, we're creating a browser
instead of a service.
Create with the allocator.
We're giving it a callback
function and our context.
The callback function is part
of the creation because we
have to do these callbacks.
We have to be able to inform
you that services exist,
or domains exist, on the network.
It's a part of the object's nature.
Finally, the context I'm passing in,
you'll notice on my context
that I'm using a mutable array.
The reason being that
as services come in,
I'm going to add them
to this cached list,
or array of services.
When I find services,
I'm going to put them in this list.
When they go away,
I'll take them out of the list.
And because I'm using a standard CF type,
I can use CF retain, CF release,
and CF copy description
for my context functions.
So at this point, we go ahead,
register it on the run loop,
and then we're going to
Registring on the current
run loop in the common modes.
Finally, we tell it to run.
So in this case,
we're telling it to search for services.
We're telling it to search for services,
again, in a local domain,
indicated by the empty string.
We're searching for echo TCP types.
And once again,
pass along a reference to our error
struct just in case an error occurs as
a process of starting up the search.
Had I wished to find out
about network topology,
I could have replaced this with a
call for search for domains instead.
And then I can search and find out
other domains that exist on the network.
So we have this service
registered on the network.
We have someone else looking for it.
Eventually,
a user is going to find what they want.
Oh, sorry.
I better tell you about the callback.
We find the services on the network.
Like I said before,
we're going to add and remove
them from our cache list.
When your callback gets called,
you're going to get called with
the browser that you created.
There's going to be a set of bit
flags indicating many specific things.
The type of thing that you found.
In this case,
we're searching for services,
so we know we're going
to be receiving services.
Had this been a search for domains,
we'd be receiving domain strings instead.
And finally, the error pointer,
indicating an error if one occurs,
or an info pointer, or your info pointer.
In this case,
we check to see whether we're removing
an item or being told to add an item.
This is indicated by
one of those bit flags.
Check to see whether we're
removing it or adding it and do so.
And then, finally,
we have this nice little flag down
here called KCFNetService More Coming.
This is used
If you're on a large network,
you're receiving hundreds of
services from the network,
or lots of domains.
Instead of having one of those apps
out there that flickers every time
you receive one of these things,
trying to do an update,
what we'll do is we'll indicate
with everyone that one's coming,
unless we know that one is not.
If we get to the end of the list,
what we can do is turn around and say,
"Hey, I'm going
Let's not pass along that flag.
And now you can detect that, oh,
this means that I can
finally do the update.
I can inform the user that it's okay,
and they see their full list.
So we've got one application
registering a service.
We've got another one
finding these services.
Now we need to go out, connect to,
and use that service.
We do this very similar to the
way we register our service.
Once again, we create it.
It looks very similar to the
way we did the registration.
We're creating a service, local domain,
Echo TCP,
The name of the service that we found,
but you'll notice this
time I'm passing in a zero,
because in this case the
port is not important.
We're going to ask the
network for this information.
We want to get the address and port of
this machine that we're going to talk to.
We register and put it on the run loop,
and then we tell it to resolve.
Very similar to the registration,
we're just going to ask the
network now for that other
machine's network address and port.
At some point, hopefully it finds it,
or it'll get a network error.
But the thing to note is that
this is an asynchronous call.
It's not meant to necessarily complete.
I can say, find my printer that I've
been using for months,
and
But because someone walked by
it and decided to turn it off,
I may not see it,
and I'm going to tell it to go print.
All of a sudden I realize
it's not finding it.
I can go down, flip on the printer,
come back, it's found it.
So at some point in the future,
you're going to get your callback.
Hopefully, you'll be told that
there's been no error.
It's returned an address.
So what do you do now?
Well,
you ask the NetService for its address.
The one important thing to note here
is that when you ask for the address,
it's going to return a list of addresses.
You've got to remember that
these are multi-homing machines,
right?
So they can have multiple addresses.
In this thing, in this example,
I'm doing one nasty thing in that
I'm grabbing the first address,
and I'm going to try
connecting to it and it only.
I would suggest you do
something a little better.
So in this case, I'm going to get the
address that we want.
I'm going to pass along to a routine
to connect the socket and do whatever
protocol work it needs to do.
Had there been an error,
of course I want to go ahead
and destroy the resolve.
It didn't work.
Remove ourselves as a client,
remove it from the run loop,
go ahead and release it, and it's gone.
So everything that I've shown has
been the asynchronous usage model,
but sometimes that doesn't
always work in your applications.
Well, we support other threading models.
So you can do a synchronous
usage of CFNet services.
The difference being that don't
schedule yourself on a run loop.
Don't set the client.
Don't set the run loop.
You're now synchronous
instead of asynchronous.
Browser is still going
to require a callback.
It has to be able to inform you that
these things are found on the network.
It needs to know how to
contact you to tell you that.
All the functions that run
and perform will now block.
So register, resolve,
browser search for services,
and browser search for
domains are now blocking.
And they will block indefinitely until,
in the case of a register,
an error occurs.
In the case of a resolve,
an error occurs or it finds an address.
And then finally,
search for domains and search
for services will go indefinitely
until they're canceled.
So, at this point,
we'd like to show you some code
and a demo of an application
that was taken from the examples,
developer examples app kit,
and they're two things.
They're called picture sharing
and picture sharing browser.
And, we're going to go ahead and
What we've done is taken
the code that they used,
which uses the foundation form of
CFNet services and SNet services,
and a raw socket to transfer
a picture from a sharing
device to a browsing device.
What we've done is gone and filled
that all with CFNetwork instead.
We're using CFStreams, CFHTTP messages,
and CFNet services.
So the first thing that we're
going to do is we're going
to walk through the browser,
the client application,
and we're going to show CFNet services,
Browsing for them, resolving them,
HTTP to actually connect to
the server and pull them down.
So, first thing what we're going
to do is create a new browser.
Like I said before,
NetService Browser Create,
default allocator,
passing along a browser
callback in our context,
which happens to be ourself.
This is a nice Cocoa app.
If it successfully created it,
get the run loop,
we're going to schedule it,
and we're going to start
a search for services.
Now, we're searching for HTTP services.
So we can have running on this
machine services which handle HTTP,
but they're not running
as part of a browser.
They're not Apache.
They're some other application.
And I don't have to tell my
grandmother what port to go to.
We're going to find it on the network.
So we create our browser.
We scheduled it.
We're going to tell
it to search for them,
and at some point,
we're going to get callbacks on
our browser callback function.
So browser callback functions.
Fires, we're going to be told,
looks like very similar code
to what I showed earlier.
We're going to be told to remove items,
or we're going to be told to add items.
So in this case,
I'm going to tell my object to
either remove or add the services.
And those are just held in a list that
I then later display in a table view.
At some point, I'm gonna be told that
there's no more coming,
at which point I tell it to refresh,
reload the data, ListView's gonna update
and populate itself,
and the user will be able to
see everything that's in the
known list of items at that time.
The user then sees that list.
They're going to click on an item.
They're going to click that service.
So at this point,
we've got a list of services.
These are actual CFNet service types.
I've been holding those in a list,
so at this point what I can do is
grab out the one that they clicked,
right.
I'm pulling it out by index.
I retain it just in case,
while I'm doing this other lookup stuff,
this service goes away.
I'm still holding a reference to it.
So I'm going to retain it.
I get its name so that I can
display a little status to the user,
this is what we're looking for.
We schedule it on the run loop.
We tell it to go resolve.
At a point in the future, hopefully,
we will be told that it resolved.
At this point,
what we're going to do is ask the
service for its list of addresses.
It's going to come back with a list.
I'm going to pull out, once again,
nasty code.
I'm going to pull out the first one.
And what these things are
inside the list of addresses are
actual wrappers on SOC struct,
they're struct SOC adders.
So, I'm gonna pull that out.
I'm going to take the
IP address and more nasty code.
I'm assuming AFInet opposed
to AFInet or AFInet6 for IPv6,
because it can be either one.
I'm going to create a
string for the dotted IP,
then what I'm going to do is
create a URL based upon the IP.
What we're going to do is
do an HTTP to that URL,
along with the port number that
also came from the addressing.
We're going to formulate that URL,
and then we're going to
create an HTTP message.
We're performing get request to the URL.
We're doing one-oh HTTP.
We're setting a header field
to indicate who we are.
We are the user agent
picture sharing 1.0.
We create our stream based upon that
HTTP request that we just formulated.
At this point,
we schedule it on a run loop.
We opened the stream.
That would be all the way down here, huh?
As part of setting the client,
we've set up our read events.
In this case,
what we care about are read events,
so when it has bytes available,
When an error occurs,
and when it hits the end of the stream.
So when there's no more
bytes of data to be read.
So at some point in the future,
we're gonna get an event.
If it has bytes available,
we're going to try reading off the bytes.
The only case I care about
right here is if it succeeds.
If it doesn't,
the event will still come through
for whatever happened for the
error or if it hit the end.
We're going to append the bytes to a
data buffer that we're building up.
At some point, we may get the end,
or I assume we'll get the end,
in which case that is the
entire image data that we've
now received from the browser,
or the server.
We build up an image from it,
we're going to put it
into our image view,
and then display it.
Had an error occurred,
we're going to stop the stream.
In either case of reading
in the stream or the error,
we're going to close down our stream.
So to close a stream,
Becky showed it earlier,
we remove ourselves as a client,
we unschedule ourselves
from the run loop,
finally we close.
So at this point,
let's show the application
actually running.
Here we have the browser.
And in this case,
we have a server that's sitting there.
It's not even running.
On another machine we've
got three instances of the
application sharing documents.
You can see, we can click around,
we can see what those are.
Right?
And it's downloading a very large, like,
4 meg TIFF or something across the wire,
over to this other machine, just appears.
OK?
So,
You want to start yours up and see about
dragging on something from the browser,
maybe?
Sure.
Oh, we just appeared, you can see.
So she started it, goes away, comes back.
Click it.
There it is.
Just to prove that we are, in fact,
doing HTTP,
I'm going to copy the URL that
appears down here and give
it to Internet Explorer.
Ta-da!
Internet Explorer can
get that same image,
but better.
Now I'm going to grab an
image here out of Google.
I did the search a little earlier for
pictures of the Golden Gate Bridge.
I'm just going to grab one.
drag it into my server.
Now let's get IE out of the way.
And I'm going to ask it to
re-fetch this image for me.
There we go.
All right.
Now, I just have a few closing slides,
and then we're going
to move on to the Q&A.
So to get more information about this,
you should look at the sample code
in Developer Examples Networking.
There's a simple Echo server and
client there that uses CFStream.
There's also a little
application URL load that shows
how you can use CFNetwork,
as well as NSURL or URL access
to download URLs off the web.
I'd also like to point you
at Developer Examples Cocoa,
which includes the Cocoa versions of
the picture sharer that we just showed.
There's also a subscription mailing
list hosted by DTS at Apple,
macnetworkprog at lists.apple.com.
If you subscribe to that,
you're more than welcome to
send any questions there.
Both Jeremy and I monitor that list,
and we'll happily
respond to any questions.
And then I want to just highlight again
the two sessions we talked about earlier.
808, which talks about CFRunLoop and
CF Stream in much more detail
than I was able to go into here.
And then 811, for all of the deep,
dark secrets of zero-conf and rendezvous.
And with that, oh, right,
also who to contact,
Tom Weyer from Worldwide
Developer Relations will be
happy to take your emails.
Again, the subscription list.